.TH sane\-hpsj5s 5 "13 Jul 2008" "@PACKAGEVERSION@" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-hpsj5s
.SH NAME
sane\-hpsj5s \- SANE backend for HP ScanJet 5S sheet-fed scanner
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-hpsj5s
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access to a parallel port Hewlett-Packard ScanJet 5S scanner.
.PP
IMPORTANT: this is alpha code. Don't expect this to work
correctly. Many functions are missing, others contain errors. In some
cases, your computer might even hang. It cannot be excluded (although
I consider it extremely improbable) that your scanner will be
damaged.
.PP
LIMITATIONS: For now this backend works only on Linux.  This limitation
is due to dependence on the libieee1284 library. If your system supports libieee1284 too,
this backend should work. If you ported libieee1284 for your platform, please let
me know. Your system should support
.B EPP
(or
.B EPP+ECP
) mode to operate this scanner. Future versions will support ECP and SPP
(Nibble and Byte) modes also. It's planned to support scanners not only
at daisy-chain position 0, but anywhere. Support for multiple scanners could
be implemented too.
.PP
Current version implements only gray scale scanning. True Color and B/W modes are
not supported for now.
.PP
That said, TESTERS ARE WELCOME. Send your bug reports and comments to
Max Vorobiev <pcwizard@yandex.ru>.
.PP
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I special
.RE
.PP
Where
.I special
is the parallel port name in form, libieee1284 expects. It seems to be system dependent.
Under Linux it's parport0, parport1, etc.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I hpsj5s.conf
file is a list of parport names that correspond to HP ScanJet 5S
scanners.  Empty lines and lines starting with a hash mark (#) are
ignored.  Only one device name can be listed in
.IR hpsj5s.conf
for this moment. Future versions will support daisy chain selection.

.SH TIPS
.PP
It seems that HP ScanJet 5S scanner uses software noise correction. This
feature is not implemented for now. So does gamma correction and calibration.
I'll handle it in future versions.
Native resolution for this scanner is 300 DPI. Other modes could be jagged in some
ways.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.I @CONFIGDIR@/hpsj5s.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-hpsj5s.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-hpsj5s.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in @CONFIGDIR@.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"@CONFIGDIR@" being searched (in this order).

.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sane(7)
.br
http://hpsj5s.sourceforge.net
.br
http://cyberelk.net/tim/libieee1284
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Max Vorobiev
.br
Man page mostly based on canon.man
