.TH sane\-qcam 5 "14 Jul 2008" "@PACKAGEVERSION@" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-qcam
.SH NAME
sane\-qcam \- SANE backend for Connectix QuickCam cameras
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sane\-qcam
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that
provides access Connectix QuickCam cameras.
.SH "DEVICE NAMES"
This backend expects device names of the form:
.PP
.RS
.I port
.RE
.PP
Where
.I port
is the I/O port address at which the device resides.  This address is
normally specified in hexadecimal using C syntax (e.g., 0x37b) and may
be prefixed with the letter "u" (e.g., u0x37b) to force the backend to
access the camera in uni-directional mode.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The contents of the
.I qcam.conf
file is a list port addresses that may be connected to a
Connectix QuickCam.  Empty lines and everything starting from a hash
mark (#) up to the end of a line are ignored.  A sample configuration
file is shown below:
.PP
.RS
0x37b  # /dev/lp0
.br
0x378  # /dev/lp1
.br
u0x278 # /dev/lp2 forced in uni-directional mode
.br
0x3bc  # /dev/lp0 (alternate address)
.RE
.PP
In general, it is safest to list only the port addresses that really
correspond to a QuickCam.  For example, if one of the listed addresses
actually connect to a printer, then starting up this backend will
cause the printer to perform a device reset (which is generally
undesirable).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I @CONFIGDIR@/qcam.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-qcam.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-qcam.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  Under UNIX, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in @CONFIGDIR@.  If the value of the
environment variable ends with the directory separator character, then
the default directories are searched after the explicitly specified
directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories "tmp/config", ".", and
"@CONFIGDIR@" being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_QCAM
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this
environment variable controls the debug level for this backend.  E.g.,
a value of 128 requests all debug output to be printed.  Smaller
levels reduce verbosity.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mosberger
.SH BUGS
Support is currently limited to the color version of the QuickCam.
The black-and-white camera is starting to work too, but I don't
believe it works in all cases yet.  Reportedly, acquiring images of
certain sizes work fine, but others result in shifted images (sounds
like a problem due to byte-padding).
.PP
The program needs root-privileges since it needs to be able to access
the camera's I/O ports.
.SH SEE ALSO
sane(7)
